# K-9 (Style, • to ••••) 

**Prerequisite**: This Merit works in conjunction with a dog of least Size 3. The character must possess Wits •••, Animal Ken •••, and share the Bonded Condition with the dog. 

**Style Tags**: Creature (Bite), Tactical (Police) 

**Effect**: Under your supervision a dog may perform exceptional actions. You purchase this Merit for your character, who may apply it to any dog she shares the Bonded Condition with after a reasonable amount of training time together. Police and military forces are the place to go to learn to work with an animal in combat, but independent trainers might know this style as well. Note that each maneuver includes the special ability to never require an Animal Ken roll to order its use. Your character’s dog obeys without a second’s pause. 

**Detection** (•): Your character’s dog has been trained to detect a certain class of substances by smell and indicate its location. Choose from one of the following: Drugs, Explosives, Tracks, People, and Corpses. When your character works with his dog it gains the Rote benefit (re-roll failed dice) on Wits + Survival rolls to detect the target substances. You may purchase this Merit multiple times for different categories. 

**Targeted Bite** (••): Your character may command his dog to target specific body parts. Reduce penalties to attack specific targets by –2. 

**Tactical Positioning** (•••): The character’s dog knows how to position itself to make it difficult for opponents to fight you both. When acting side by side against a single opponent, one of the pair gains +1 to Defense against that opponent, and the other benefits from +2 to attack rolls targeting the opponent. Your character decides which participant gets the offensive or defensive bonus at the beginning of each turn. Finally, you never take a penalty to ranged combat rolls to avoid shooting the dog, because he avoids your line of fire. 

**Takedown Bite** (••••): At your character’s command, his dog may inflict a Drop Prone or Hold grappling maneuver on a target if it hits with a successful bite attack. The target may be no more the double the dog’s Size, however. This immediately initiates a grapple. Dogs may employ the above maneuvers along with Break Free, Control (opponent’s) Weapon, and Damage.